feat: describe infrastructure and environment variables (#37)
standardnotes/docs: docs/self-hosting/configuration-options.md

  ```

## Syncing Server JS & Syncing Server Worker

All configuration options mentioned below are controlled by environment variables located in the `.env` file.

### Basics

- `LOG_LEVEL`: the level of logs outputted by the Syncing Server JS and Syncing Server JS Worker services
- `NODE_ENV`: Node environment in which the service is running

### Secrets

- `JWT_SECRET`: secret used to sign the JWT tokens that are used for authorization & authentication purposes between client and server.

> - `LEGACY_JWT_SECRET`: This parameter is as a fallback for supporting old client applications that had a different authorization mechanism. You don't need to change this if you are just starting to self-host your setup and do not own a legacy client application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `LEGACY_JWT_SECRET`: This parameter is a fallback for supporting old client applications that had a different authorization mechanism. You don't need to change this if you are just starting to self-host your setup and do not own a legacy client application.
```

- `AUTH_JWT_SECRET`: secret used to sign the JWT tokens that are used for authorization & authentication purposes between services.

### Ports

> - `EXPOSED_PORT`: this is the port on which the API Gateway will run. It is your main entry point for the whole infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `EXPOSED_PORT`: the port on which the API Gateway will run. It is your main entry point for the entire infrastructure.
```

### Database

- `DB_HOST`: database host

> - `DB_REPLICA_HOST`: database replica host. If no replica supported it should point to the same host as the primary DB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `DB_REPLICA_HOST`: database replica host. If no replica is supported it should point to the same host as the primary DB.
```

- `DB_PORT`: database port
- `DB_USERNAME`: database username
- `DB_PASSWORD`: database password
- `DB_DATABASE`: database name
- `DB_DEBUG_LEVEL`: the level of logs which are outputted in the database context. Related to TypeORM.
- `DB_MIGRATIONS_PATH`: path to migrations folder that should be run against the database. Related to TypeORM.

### Cache

- `REDIS_URL`: url to Redis node

### Authentication and Authorization

- `ACCESS_TOKEN_AGE`: time to live (in seconds) of the access token used to communicate with the server.
- `REFRESH_TOKEN_AGE`: time to live (in seconds) of the refresh token used to obtain a new access token.

> - `EPHEMERAL_SESSION_AGE`: time to live (in seconds) of an ephemeral session. Used when you sign in without the "keep me signed in" option checked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `EPHEMERAL_SESSION_AGE`: time to live (in seconds) of an ephemeral session. Used when you sign in without the "Stay signed in" option checked.
```

> - `MAX_LOGIN_ATTEMPTS`: number of login attempts before getting locked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `MAX_LOGIN_ATTEMPTS`: number of login attempts before locking the account.
```

> - `FAILED_LOGIN_LOCKOUT`: amount of seconds for the locked period after failed login attempts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `FAILED_LOGIN_LOCKOUT`: lockout period in seconds after maximum failed login attempts.
```

### Redis Async Communication (Default)

> - `REDIS_EVENTS_CHANNEL`: name of the redis Pub/Sub channel used for communication between the service and it's worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `REDIS_EVENTS_CHANNEL`: name of the Redis Pub/Sub channel used for communication between the service and its worker.
```

### AWS Async Communication (Optional)

> If you do not want to use Redis as the communication channel between services, you can configured your async communication to be done via Amazon Web Services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do not want to use Redis as the communication channel between services, you can configure your async communication to be done via Amazon Web Services.
```

> > **Note** We do not support configuring AWS secret and access keys in the environment variables as this is generally a bad practice. If you would like to utilize SNS, SQS and S3 please configure an appropriate IAM user and role for the server on which you self-host your application as [best practice](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/best-practices.html#sharing-credentials).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note** We do not support configuring AWS secret and access keys in the environment variables as this is generally bad practice. If you would like to utilize SNS, SQS and S3, please configure an appropriate IAM user and role for the server on which you self-host your application as [best practice](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/best-practices.html#sharing-credentials).
```

- `SNS_TOPIC_ARN`: ARN of the SNS topic that the service will publish events to.
- `SNS_AWS_REGION`: AWS region of the SNS topic.
- `SQS_QUEUE_URL`: URL of the SQS queue from which a worker will consume events.
- `SQS_AWS_REGION`: AWS region of the SQS queue.
- `S3_BACKUP_BUCKET_NAME`: name of the S3 bucket on which a file backup will be performed to transfer large data between services.
- `S3_AWS_REGION`: AWS region of the S3 bucket.

### Extensions Server Redirection (Optional)

> We use internal service discovery endpoints in our Virtual Private Cloud. In order for the requests to not go out via the internet we reroute the traffic go through internal network only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use internal service discovery endpoints in our Virtual Private Cloud. In order for the requests to not go out via the internet we reroute the traffic to go through internal network only.
```

> - `INTERNAL_DNS_REROUTE_ENABLED`: if you'd like to redirect posting notes to extensions server to a different url you can enable this option.

Reviewer: Hmm not sure I understand the purpose of this one based on this description..

> - `EXTENSIONS_SERVER_URL`: the url of the extensions server to which the notes will be redirected.

Reviewer: > the notes

Is this just for legacy note history extension?

### Auth Service

> We are in the process of moving some user/authentication related functionalities out of Syncing Server JS and into Auth serivce. In order to achieve that gradualy we are redirecting some requests internally to the Auth service from Syncing Server js to slowly strangle that functionality in Syncing Server JS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are in the process of moving some user/authentication related functionalities out of Syncing Server JS and into Auth service. In order to achieve this, we are gradually redirecting some requests internally to the Auth service from Syncing Server JS.
```

-`AUTH_SERVER_URL`: url to the Auth service. Default value should be kept.

### Disabling new user registrations

> This is one of the features that will be deprecated soon in favor of Auth service. For now it is configurable in both Syncing Server JS and Auth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This features will soon be deprecated in favor of Auth service. For now it is configurable in both Syncing Server JS and Auth.
```

> - `DISABLE_USER_REGISTRATION`: disable the option to register new users on the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `DISABLE_USER_REGISTRATION`: disable the option to allow new user registrations on the server.
```

### Emails

> - `EMAIL_ATTACHMENT_MAX_BYTE_SIZE`: Amount of bytes allowed for the attachment with a data backup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `EMAIL_ATTACHMENT_MAX_BYTE_SIZE`: Amount of bytes allowed for daily email backup attachments.
```

### Revisions

> - `REVISIONS_FREQUENCY`: Amount of seconds between each revision save of a note.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `REVISIONS_FREQUENCY`: Amount of seconds that should pass between each save of a note for a new history revision to be created.
```

### New Relic (Optional)

We are utilizing New Relic to monitor our infrastructure. If you wish to set up your own monitoring in New Relic you can utilize the following environment variables:

> - `NEW_RELIC_ENABLED`: enable or disable new relic agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `NEW_RELIC_ENABLED`: enable or disable New Relic agent
```

> - `NEW_RELIC_APP_NAME`: name of the syncing server application under which it will show in New Relic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `NEW_RELIC_APP_NAME`: name of the application to show in New Relic
```

- `NEW_RELIC_LICENSE_KEY`: New Relic license key
- `NEW_RELIC_NO_CONFIG_FILE`: should be true as we do not use configuration files for New Relic and fallback to environment variables.
- `NEW_RELIC_DISTRIBUTED_TRACING_ENABLED`: enable or disable distrubuted tracing.
- `NEW_RELIC_LOG_ENABLED`: enable or disable logs in New Relic

> - `NEW_RELIC_LOG_LEVEL`: level of logs in New Relic

Reviewer: Some descriptions seem to have a period at the end and some don't. I think for consistency we should just add a period after after description.

## Auth & Auth Worker

All configuration options mentioned below are controlled by environment variables located in the `docker/auth.env` file.

### Basics

- `LOG_LEVEL`: the level of logs outputted by the Auth and Auth Worker services
- `NODE_ENV`: Node environment in which the service is running

### Secrets

- `AUTH_JWT_TTL`: Time to live in seconds for the JWT token used for communication between services.
- `PSEUDO_KEY_PARAMS_KEY`: key used to generate password nonce in the process of creating user authentication parameters.
- `ENCRYPTION_SERVER_KEY`: key used for ecrypting user server key. Must be a hex string exactly 32 bytes long e.g. `feffe9928665731c6d6a8f9467308308feffe9928665731c6d6a8f9467308308`

### Redis Async Communication (Default)

> - `REDIS_EVENTS_CHANNEL`: name of the redis Pub/Sub channel used for communication between the service and it's worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `REDIS_EVENTS_CHANNEL`: name of the Redis Pub/Sub channel used for communication between the service and its worker.
```

### Disabling new user registrations

- `DISABLE_USER_REGISTRATION`: disable the option to register new users on the server.

### New Relic (Optional)

We are utilizing New Relic to monitor our infrastructure. If you wish to set up your own monitoring in New Relic you can utilize the following environment variables:

> - `NEW_RELIC_ENABLED`: enable or disable new relic agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `NEW_RELIC_ENABLED`: enable or disable New Relic agent
```

> - `NEW_RELIC_APP_NAME`: name of the syncing server application under which it will show in New Relic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `NEW_RELIC_APP_NAME`: name of the application to show in New Relic
```

- `NEW_RELIC_LICENSE_KEY`: New Relic license key
- `NEW_RELIC_NO_CONFIG_FILE`: should be true as we do not use configuration files for New Relic and fallback to environment variables.
- `NEW_RELIC_DISTRIBUTED_TRACING_ENABLED`: enable or disable distrubuted tracing.
- `NEW_RELIC_LOG_ENABLED`: enable or disable logs in New Relic
- `NEW_RELIC_LOG_LEVEL`: level of logs in New Relic

## API Gateway

All configuration options mentioned below are controlled by environment variables located in the `docker/api-gateway.env` file.

### Basics

- `LOG_LEVEL`: the level of logs outputted by the API Gateway service
- `NODE_ENV`: Node environment in which the service is running

### Routing

- `SYNCING_SERVER_JS_URL`: url to the Syncing Server JS service
- `AUTH_SERVER_URL`: url to the Auth service

### Timeouts

> - `HTTP_CALL_TIMEOUT`: amount of miliseconds on which the API Gateway will wait for the underlying service to respond.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `HTTP_CALL_TIMEOUT`: amount of milliseconds the API Gateway will wait for the underlying service to respond.
```

### New Relic (Optional)

We are utilizing New Relic to monitor our infrastructure. If you wish to set up your own monitoring in New Relic you can utilize the following environment variables:

> - `NEW_RELIC_ENABLED`: enable or disable new relic agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `NEW_RELIC_ENABLED`: enable or disable New Relic agent
```

> - `NEW_RELIC_APP_NAME`: name of the syncing server application under which it will show in New Relic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `NEW_RELIC_APP_NAME`: name of the application to show in New Relic
```
